---
layout: post
title:  "Learn to embrace Self-Education"
date:   2012-08-01
categories: general inspiration life wordpress
---

_Self-Education isn't something new. It's a form of education which humans have practiced since the beginning of our species. Yet, a lot of youngsters are wasting their time on ridiculous stuff. You don't have to go the radical way to do self-education. Keep in mind that you have limits, as a human. Educating yourself is important, but do not forget to spend some time with friends, family or a hobby which is unrelated with self-educating  yourself. This blog post is meant to inspire you. Like in most of my blogs it is based on my own experiences and/or things I've learned in the past. So, now that I've introduced this post. Are you ready to do something with your life?_

Self-Education can be applied to every field of interest. The subjects and fields you'll try to master will fully depend on what you're points of interest are. This type of learning will take a lot of your (extra) spare time, so it is very important  that you really like these things. Classical education via school is something that can help. It gives you guidance, and on top of that it'll give you an education 'foundation', if I may call it like that. It is however not necessary, there are enough examples which can be found via the internet. Examples who became good at what they loved to do, without following the proper courses or going to school at all. It just makes everything a lot harder and you'll have to educate yourself without any guidance at all.

So far so good, you're still reading? In the beginning I've already told you about your limits. This is something you'll have to take into account if you want to self-educate yourself in the most efficient way. Proper time management makes the difference between mastering a subject or watching YouTube videos all day long. You'll notice that you can't plan your life 24/7, that's not what time management is about. First of all you should know what you want to achieve. Now that you have something to do, you should know when you have spare time. This is the time you are not at school, work or other obligation. No, sleeping is not an obligation. It's just an annoying and time consuming need of your body. There is 2 ‘rules' regarding sleeping. First of all you should keep the time you sleep as short as possible. Also, you shouldn't sleep in fixed time periods, which is the second rule. You only go to bed when your concentration drops down below an acceptable level. When you do, don't forget about the first rule.