---
layout: post
title:  "Working without Coffee"
date:   2012-08-14
categories: life wordpress
---

_Reading books and learning new things really gives me a lot of joy. It's something I really love to do. Yet I often catch myself falling asleep. It's certainly not because I'm bored. Sleep deprivation is a possible cause, although I try to sleep at least 6 hours a day. Therefore I doubt it that this is the real cause. Coffee was my ultimate solution. It tastes good and it sure keeps me awake for as long as I need._

Ten days ago I had a lot of pain in my chest for about 8 minutes. This was right after I finished a nice cup of coffee on my roof. Sure, nothing to worry about, or should I?. Six days ago I got really sick, and the contingency was that I just had drunk my last cup of coffee, once again. Because of my recovery I didn't drink coffee until yesterday. I really could use some coffee, after falling asleep on the train. Yes, you can already guess it. After drinking 2 cups I had a serious stomach ache for quite some time. I don't know for sure that it is because of the coffee. But just to be sure I'm going to avoid drinking coffee for the next couple of weeks. This brings me back to my first problem, falling asleep while working and studying.

Finding solutions for this problem, wasn't a problem at all. Just by googling it, I got 2.330.000 results. Let me list some tips and tricks:

+ Have a short break in between your long work session (for me this means a small physical workout);
+ Work with the windows open, cold air will help to keep you awake;
+ Play music that keeps you active, motivated and happy;
+ Set your computer screen to a lower setting, (duller and darker) so as not to strain your eyes;
+ Do not work in bed, on a couch, or on the floor;
+ Drink a Lot of Water and eat a snack once in a while (e.g. an apple);
+ Rub some Vicks between your lips and nose (or anything else with eucalyptus in it);

These are just some of the many things you can do, to prevent yourself from falling asleep. I am going to try them out for sure. If you guys have some advice for me related to this subject, then don't be afraid to share it. Just leave a comment behind, as this helps other people to. If you're shy then you can mail me or contact me via IRC.