---
layout: post
title:  "Erasmus and lessons from the past"
date:   2013-08-24
categories: game-development general life wordpress
---

I just arrived in Finland. Here, I'll study for 4 months as an Erasmus exchange student. It's my first time I'm living for a long period in another country. This and the fact that I'm studying now something slightly different, will hopefully combined together, become a great lifetime experience. It's also a new start. A start with insight in planning problems I had in the past. Although it left some scars behind, I'm still quite happy with what I achieved the last year and where I'm right now in life.

A year ago an evolution started. I had finished my first year with no problems so far and was ready and confident to begin my second year in digital arts and entertainment, a professional bachelor. I was always interested in computer science related subjects and game development. However, it was in that first year that the passion really caught fire. Just as fire is both a friend and enemy, I learned that passion can give the wrong results if you let it lead your life to much. I posted several blog posts last year about time management and problems I had with it. However I never really learned from it. As I was always looking for new challenges and things to learn, I kept ignoring the big problem, time. You only have a certain amount of it, you need it for your school/work, primitive tasks, travelling and so much more. On top of that you have (different) priorities at every point of your life. Priorities are priorities for a reason. If you for example want to achieve a degree at collage or university, then studying these courses and passing your exams should be your main priority.

The fact that I wrote several posts about is, is probably a sign that I never really learned from these mistakes. Projects and the people I worked with changed, but the fact that I ignored important school work never changed. As I dropped projects to make time for school, I refilled it over and over again with new projects. This can probably be explained by the fact that I was looking for challenges. And although this is a valid reason, excuses never explain why you ignore your main priority. Getting a degree is not something you should take lightly. It may be that you feel that your education is lacking important curriculum or that it doesn't challenge you enough. Even if this is true, it should never let you lose your focus on this main priority, in my case getting a degree.

This year I was primly focused on thing that had nothing to do with the curriculum of my education. And although I enjoyed doing these projects and learning these interesting topics, it was still wrong to replace tasks for university with tasks for myself or third parties. Not only gave it me problems in the end, it also left me not to happy with what just happened. It made me realize that I should never, ever, lose focus on the big projects you have for university. And I have to admit, we do get a lot of freedom in these projects, as long as we meet the necessary requirements. This fact makes the excuse of doing other projects for the need of challenge, quite invalid. Now, after this year, I've learned that you shouldn't try to outrun time. It's OK to do things on your own, but keep working for school and maintain your projects. Make them big, make them great. As your the one creating it, you should be proud of it. Make it something of yourself. and on top of all, make sure that you score well and succeed.

In life, it's important to realize when your wrong. It's important to admit your wrong. I can tell you this, I was wrong in what I did. I talked about scars in the introduction of this article, so what is it? Well, I didn't pass for one course. This makes it impossible to do my internship next semester. Which means that my education will takes several months longer, than is needed. It's a scar that will remind me how ignorant I was. There is nothing wrong with being motivated, doing projects on your own or with people with similar passions or who are as motivated as you. But please, never, ever, try to outrun time. It's a battle that you can never win and in the end, it will just bite you.

For now, I have 4 months to think more about what happened. It's a time where i can come into peace with the flow of time. A time where I can start learning to do things, the correct and well time-managed way. Again, it's OK to do projects on your own and/or to educate yourself. But keep it well managed. Life is long and if you truly have this motivation, then you have more then enough time to achieve your personal goals in a more managed way. It will not only make sure you'll succeed. It will also make sure that you do the things you do, more focused and better. And I believe that in the end, this will make you more happier and satisfied with the things you did and the goals you would like to achieve.