---
layout: post
title:  "Erasmus in Finland, Student Facilities"
date:   2013-10-19
categories: general life wordpress
---

_As you all know, I'm on Erasmus in Finland. For four months I'm a Game develop student in the university of applied sciences, Kajaani. Or "ammattikorkeakoulu", as Finnish people like their words long. Compared to my home university, it is quite a different place._

Last time I already talked about tutors, who welcomed me at my arrival. There are many tutors, which are students who help students with their needs and problems. Each department has its own tutors and there are also a few that are assigned to exchange students. On the first schooldays they showed us around the university area, the university buildings and the town. We also played some games outside, which was not only fun but also a great way to get to know each other in a quick and effective way.

The tutors, or _tuutorit_,  are great and form also a great connection in between all the different (free) facilities available for students and staff. There is a compact library on the campus, with books that can be useful for all the different departments. This is awesome as you have all these great resources available for a long time, completely free and only a couple hundred meters from your residence. Which is a much better option than having to go to the other end of town, in the snow, to get some books. Besides the library I also found that in the computer lab, a classroom used by the game develop students, are also quite a lot of books available. I utilize both these places as much as possible, by reading as much books as I can during my Erasmus here, all computer science related.

Sport is important, especially for a programmer like myself. And yes, also for this are several options provided by the university, again for free. There are 2 different finesses on the campus, a small alternative and a bigger normal one. These are a great place for a nice workout and here you can find me about 3 times a week. Besides that there is also a sporthal where students can play several sports together, on fixed timings. Whether it's volleyball, football, basketball or any other sport, we'll make it fun. It's amazing that the university provides these facilities for free and it is something every university should provide, imho.