---
layout: post
title:  "Erasmus in Finland, an adventure"
date:   2013-10-12
categories: life wordpress
---

_More then one month ago, at the end of August, I arrived in [Kajaani](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kajaani). A small village in the center of Finland. A place where people are shy, yet very warm once you get close to them. Although they usually speak in [an alienated language](http://www.bbc.co.uk/languages/yoursay/weird_words/finnish/you_are_so_huomiseksi.shtml), their English is in general quite good and they all have a [Sauna](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sauna)!._

Flying over from Helsinki to Kajaani, I saw for the first time how much nature Finland really has. Lakes and forests, as far as my eyes could see. And after all this time and a lot of time spend in the forests, I can confirm it. Nature in Finland is amazing and everywhere. You can't even go from one university building to the other without going trough a "forest"!

The journey to Ketunpolku, my home until the end of this year, was quite long. Once arrived I got warmly welcomed by the tutor students, and 2 of my Belgian colleagues who were already there. These friendly guys had even prepared food!

I'm for sure not staying at a big town, or the most usual location for an Erasmus. Knowing this fact, it might surprise you that there are students from over 30 different countries here. Living with all these different cultures and nationalities is a great experience. Although we live in an age where we are already quite connected trough the different parts of the world, where we can see where and how they live, and follow their news via different media. It still can't be compared with actually living with people who are actually from these countries. It's something that at least opens my eyes a little more and gives me a broader perspective about our world. Talking with them is like opening a portal to a new world.

A barbecue near a lake with some beers is a great way to get to know each other. Sitting there, sharing food and experiences while the night falls down. However there is more in life, than just sausages!

More posts about my Erasmus here will follow regularly, now that I've started writing about it. With this being said, thank you for reading, I'm going back in the dark, where music flows over into programming.